Now let's move on to Icon Buttons.
So on mobile UIs it's very common to use
icons for buttons instead of just text.
It's actually quite common
on the web as well.
It's kind of makes mobile apps feel nicer,
and
it allows us to have
less text on the screen.
It's just a little bit more fun.
We'll be using expo icons and
this is built on top of
the react-native-vector-icons and
the handy thing about it is,
you got a link here.
So it's got a convenient website that
you can use to search for icons.
So let's say that I wanted a leaf,
so I can search for my leaf icon and
it gives me the import that I need and
also the component to render.
So you can have your own icon images or
SVGs or whatever, but
this is just a convenient way if you want
to quickly get some icons in your app.
You can choose some from
this existing library.
One thing to note, which might be
surprising if you're going for
the web is that SVGs are actually
not the most optimal way
to render things on native apps.
In particular android,
it's actually quite expensive.
So if you have 1,000 SVGs on an Android
app, it might end up slowing to a crawl.
So SVGs are something to be used kind
of sparingly in a React Native app.
And like small PNGs would, for
example, actually be preferred.
But using icons for
like bottom tabs or icon buttons or
things like that is very common,
and that's what we're going to do.
Let's start by installing
the vector-icons library.
So we're gonna do npx expo install
@expo/vector-icons, [COUGH] and
you might be wondering why are we
doing this npx expo install.
Why are we not doing yarn install or
npm install and
this is just a useful thing to do
if you are building with expo.
And notice that what this
did is that it prints out,
it's installing one SDK 51
compatible native module using yarn.
And the reason this is important
is that react native versions
don't work like react native
changes across releases.
And packages that touch native code,
they need to be compatible with
that version of React Native.
So if we look at our package.json, which
is here, so we can see that we have expo,
this is SDK 51, and
then we have react-native 74.
So react-native does a release
around every like twice a year,
and Expo does a release of SDK
release twice a year as well.
And then with each SDK release we
also bump the react-native version.
So if you install with npx expo will
install then if the library that you're
installing is something that we
have records of, this checks and
makes sure that you're installing
an SDK compatible version.
So that's why it's saying that
it's installing an SDK 51, so
this comes from here, compatible library.
So in September or
October or SDK 52 comes out.
If you haven't upgraded yet
and you run npx expo install,
it makes sure that the library you're
installing is compatible with 51
compared to if we just did yarn install or
npm install,
which by default would install
the latest version of that package.
>> Kadi Kraman: [COUGH] And
you'll also notice that I'm using yarn.
So even though I did npx expo install,
it's using yarn to add my package.
And the way that it detects that is
actually based on the lock file.
So if I have a yarn lock in my in
my project, it's gonna use yarn.
If you have PMP lock, it will use
PMPM if you have a bone lock file,
if you use bone, etc.
>> Kadi Kraman: Now, If we weren't
using Expo Go, at this point,
we would have to rebuild our native app to
actually get these native components for
the expo/vector-icons.
But because we are using Expo Go, this is
a sandbox environment, and it has a whole
bunch of native libraries pre-installed,
including expo/vector-icons.
So that's why we can just install
this library and away we go.
>> Kadi Kraman: Now,
I've picked some icons already.
All right, so we're going to use
the icon for the delete button.
So here's the UI that we're going to do.
So instead of having the delete
as a black button with text,
we're going to use a delete icon instead.
Make it a bit pretty.
So I've chosen this red color,
which is somewhere on here.
There we go,
let's add this red to our theme file.
Let's go to the theme and add a color red.
And then I think what I did is
I went on this website close,
there we go, I think this is what I used,
closecircleo.
>> Kadi Kraman: It's this one,
there you go.
So now that you have,
you can actually just
copy this from the vector icons website,
go to our shopping list item,
and import the vector icon.
>> Kadi Kraman: And oops.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
we also can render the component.
So where are touchableOpacity is,
we can keep the touchableOpacity.
But we replace the text
with our closecircle.
>> Kadi Kraman: [COUGH] Let's
also remove these styles.
>> Kadi Kraman: There we go, so
we don't need these button styles anymore.
And instead of the black color,
let's do a theme color red.
There we go, I probably want our
kind of completed items to be grey.
So let's use a grey
color if it's completed.
So if isCompleted,
let's do theme.colorGrey,
otherwise, we'll do red.
>> Kadi Kraman: Awesome.
>> Student: If you can't find
good icons with expo icons,
are there any other icon
libraries you'll reach for?
>> Kadi Kraman: I would use SVG,
I mean you can use any SVG icon.
There's a react native svg,
so react native svg.
>> Kadi Kraman: There you go.
So you can install react-native-svg and
then just render any icon
that you might want from SVG.
Actually, Expo image also renders SVGs.
So if you have, so expo image,
from here, expo image.
I'll just call it image,
there you go, [LAUGH].
Yeah expo Image actually
also renders SVGs, so
any like SVG library website that you
might usually frequent would work.
All right, and I think at this point,
looking at my thoughts that this
padding on the edges looks a bit tight,
so let's increase it from 8 to 18, give
it a little bit more space to breathe.